---
title: "What is this!?"
date: 2024-02-14
---

So you might be wondering what the heck this website is all about. So I guess I'll explain that.

I'm not the greatest data scientist, in fact I'm not a data scientist at all, I'm just a programmer that occasionally tries to learn about machine learning and finds manipulating statistics with programs like pandas and matplotlib deeply impressive but deeply frustrating. Matplotlib, pandas, numpy, keras, scikit-learn, and pytorch all require insane amounts of arcane functions and configuration, they're all deeply state-dependent, and they are all essentially like programming in another language from vanilla Python, a language which I can fairly be described as an expert in (I'm paid to write it). But there is one world of statistics that I am constantly curious about and so keep coming back to analyze and learn more about how to analyze. That's the world of politics. I've been a poll watching Nate Bronze fan since Nate Bronze was Nate Gold. Heck before Nate Bronze was Nate Silver Ore. In 2008, as a freshman at USF I listened daily to some random XM radio station devoted just to election news. I remember my junior year of high school, in 2006!, arguing with a friend that McCain would get the nomination (he said McCain was a RINO).

Over the years I've:

1. Analyzed various political statistics au hasard (like covid death rates and 2016/2018 election results)
2. Created an Amazon lambda function that texted me and a friend any decent change in the main election models
3. Created a Gatsby Site that would let me track the history of individual polls
4. And created a web app called Maudlin that scraped around 30 different news websites every hour and did sentiment analysis on them and created wordclouds. I loved it, but it sucked. It was designed by an idiot (me). It rotted away because websites tend to rot and stagnated due to neglect.

So, the election is coming up and I'm getting my election statistics craving, and a Poaster named [Will Stancil](https://twitter.com/whstancil) has convinced me that media narratives matter a whole lot for elections in ways people underestimate. And I agree with him. I watched in 2016 as Hillary was about to win the election and James Comey completely change the narrative with a letter and Anthony Weiner's laptop.

Stancil Thought was given a clear definition the other day by none other than the man himself:

> "Stancil thought" means "Politics is guided by a public perception of reality formed through social consensus, rather than by individuals in observing their material conditions and reacting mechanistically." Media plays a big role in social consensus, it is not the whole thing
>
> My point has never been that "Instead of responding in a linear, mechanical fashion to economic inputs, people respond in a linear, mechanical fashion to media inputs." It's that people don't respond in a linear, mechanical fashion to ANYTHING
>
> That's why you can't predict political outcomes by observing conditions on the ground -- the social consensus and the flow of ideas that facilitates it exist separately from material conditions, and do not relate to them in a way that can be predictably modeled.
>
> It's also why theories of politics that rely on certain material conditions producing certain political outcomes - i.e., most of them, left-of-center - are garbage. They omit the most important, most complex, most fluid part of politics! The part where people talk to each other!
>
> From [Will Stancil on Imran Khan's Re-election](https://twitter.com/whstancil/status/1757440802303660158)

This is a pretty heady thesis and I think I broadly agree with it. This is flummoxing because people are flummoxing. Somehow people were convinced Hillary was corrupt while running against Donald Trump, a man who ran Trump University. This has, for 8 years now, caused me to 🤯. Now the guy that thinks he's still running against Obama and confuses Nikki Haley with Nancy Pelosi is perceived as the not-senile candidate because he's loud. I am once again 🤯.

One way or another, media has much more influence on elections than the actual economic state, which is what Will has been arguing for about 6 months now. [He has single-handedly delivered us from the vibecession based on this theory.](https://twitter.com/ArmandDoma/status/1752041758056472837) So even if people don't respond linearly to media narratives, it is still a good idea to know what they are!

Long story short, I decided to recreate maudlin from scratch with a better tech stack and about 2-3 years of experience. I've added 30 scrapers so far and am not even halfway done. I'm focusing solely on headlines instead of articles. I'm tracking headline changes. I'm adding partisanship bias and credibility scores gleaned from mediabiasfactcheck.com. Everything is stored in an sqlite database instead of postgres. The site is not generated ad hoc like a web app, its a static set of files that use jinja2 as templating but then are just shunted over to a default nginx file server running on a Digital Ocean droplet. It's a LOT better! It runs all the scrapers and generates a new site in about 2 minutes!

The first real interesting statistic I've created is a partisan happiness index, which is basically just a bias rating (-3 left to +3 right) multiplied by the hourly sentiment score. Positive numbers mean the right is happy and negative numbers mean the left is happy. I will start creating charts to track this over time. I also need to start excluding or filtering out foreign media for this.

The next thing I want to do is some headline sentiment tracking. Headlines tend to a/b test for clicks. Using url's as a key its easy to check which headlines correspond to the same story, and then chart their sentiment history over time. I experimented with this yesterday, it's not quite there yet. The data is still young.

The big thing that I'm reading literal books to figure out how to do is a media narrative tracker. If we have narratives like "Biden is old", "Trump is dangerous", "Ukraine", "China", "Border Crisis", "Crime in Cities", "Inflation", etc., and we can assign articles to them we can track

1. What stories the news is talking about.
2. How good or bad for Biden/Trump these narratives are.
3. Who's winning the what we're talking about fight.

This may not fit Stancil Thought Tracking perfectly (to do that I'd really need a lot of money and access to Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and Reddit apis) but it will at least give a window in the fight.

I really think legacy media is still more powerful than people think. Without Fox News my own parents wouldn't have had their brains melted. They paid people to watch CNN instead of Fox and found them basically become normie Dems in a month. Social media bubble discourse is honestly quite questionable and many studies have shown that they don't really exist. But Stancil is right that just posting on Twitter affects public sentiment precisely because reporters are heavily overrepresented on Twitter. So lets monitor the downstream effects of Twitter Poasting.

I also think there's no way in hell an 8 year trend of Republicans getting creamed at the polls is going to spontaneously change in 2024 because Biden accidentally refers to Al Sisi as the President of Mexico. Hell, let's extend it back. They've won the popular vote one time in over 30 years. Trump's not going to win. But if he does, at least this project will be able to show why it happened. 