---
title: "Media Narratives and Future Features"
date: 2024-03-13
---

A couple days ago I finally launched my Media Narrative History Tracker feature with help from a friend at work. I
wanted to lay out how it works:

For any topic there's a set of essential words and a set of keywords. The essential words are used to limit the headline
search. We'll use Inflation as our example to explain it. Inflation has 4 essentials: inflation, economy, prices, and
cost. To qualify as a headline in this topic you have to use at least one of them. Once we've got our set of headlines
containing at least one essential word, we process the headlines into simple lowercase words, excluding stopwords like
do and is, expanding contractions, fixing typographical errors and lemmatizing words like running down to run. Then we
count the number of topic keywords that occur in that headline and divide it by the number of words in the headline.
Currently a score of over 0.05 means it belongs to the topic. These numbers aren't super normalized but when I was doing
testing I found above that was pretty reliable. And we can see from the word cloud it seems to be working pretty well
and keyword choice seems to matter more.

In the coming weeks I want to add a few features, you can see my brainstorming on the [Github Issues page][issues] for
the repository. At the top of my list is to add pages that show all the headlines included for a topic today (or
possibly any given day) and simple graphs of articles mentioning Trump, Biden, and Trump & Biden and their sentiments.
I'm interested in emotion detection to improve sentiment analysis. And I want to add polling averages from 538.

That's it for now. Hopefully more updates in the coming weeks.

(This post has been anonymized and links have been stripped.)